# Reflection:

## Question:

Over the course of the term, you have been exposed to a variety of data structures. Considering the functionality of a Trie, pick another 2 other data structure we have studied and discuss the following: - how good will that data structure be at the tasks (search, begins_with and insert) that a Trie can do. To get full marks on this discussion, please provide details about the data structure you are comparing with the Trie, its features, and how well is it able to handle each of the three tasks of the Trie.

## Answer:
* Two other data structures which can perform the tasks that a Trie can do could be Linked Lists and trees.
* Linked list:
* Linked list is a special type of list that contains nodes that are connected to each other with the next pointer and holds a data. In a linked list in order to insert all the words we need to put not character by character but by adding directly the entire word in a Node, this works differently than a Trie. linked lists can perform insertion using push_front(). It will take O(1) time, as each node is inserted at the top or back of the linked list, and since in the linked list we have both the front and the back pointer. The linear search algorithm for the linked list visits each Node one-by-one to see if its value is equal to the search value. If the value is found, it returns True. If the linear search algorithm loops through all Node instances in the linked list and comes up empty, it returns False. Regarding the begins_with function we need to perform the linear search algorithm again. It visits each Node one-by-one to see if the prefix that we have as input matches the starting or the entire word present in the Node, we add the word to the list otherwise if no word matches we return an empty list.

* Tree:
* Trees also use "node linked data structure", but in this case they don't point only to their next and their previous but they can have multiple children. To insert we firstly need to understand that the structure doesn't work exactly as the Trie. A Trie can have up to 26 children, on the other side a tree starts with a single root and it can have multiple children. The words in tree's data structure case can only start with 1 letter otherwise we need to make the root node as Null or make 26 different trees in which the root will hold 1 letter from A to Z. In order to do the search function we need to check if the root corresponds to the first letter of the word, then we need to search the second letter if it's present as children of the root and so on, till we get the entire word, then check if the  variable "end_of_word" set to true we return True in any other case, for example if any of the letters of the word is not found or the  variable "end_of_word" is still set to its default value False we return False. Then for the begins_with function we need to have a prefix as input, we check if the root matches the first letter of the word, if it does, checks its children till it matches the entire prefix, then once the prefix is matched we again check all the children in each path and every node that has the variable "end_of_word" set to True we will add all the ancestor characters from the root downwards and appends it to the list till finding all the words and then returns the list. The insert function will check if the character is already present if it isn't adds a new node children to its parent otherwise checks the the children's successors, will continue checking till the word ends and will set the variable "end_of_word" to True.